### Database Design II - Logical Modeling
- Design Process
  - Step 1 Conceptual Model
    - Database Model independent
  - Step 2 Logical Model
    - Select which type (model) of database you wish to implement your conceptual model in
      - Network, Relational, OO, XML, NoSQL
    - Database model dependent
  - Step 3 Physical Model
    - Select which specific vendor for your chosen model you will implement in 
      - Oracle, MySQL, IBM DB2, SQL Server
    - Database vendor dependent
    - Final output schema file to implement model (for relational model a set of tables)
- Transforming ER diagrams into relations (mapping conceptual level to logical level)
  - Essentially
    - KEY to PK
    - Represent relationships with PK/FK pairs
  - The steps are:
    - Map strong (regular) entities
      - Composite Attributes
        - When the regular entity type contains a composite attribute, only the simple component attributes of the composite attribute are included in the new relation.
        – Compared to composite attributes, simple attributes not only improve data accessibility but also help in maintaining data quality
        – Client input needed in some cases to determine if to be left as simple or broken into components
      - Multivalued Attribute
        – When the regular entity type contains a multivalued attribute, two new relations are created.
        – The first relation contains all the attributes of the entity type except the multivalued attribute itself.
        – The second relation contains two attributes that form the PK. One of the attributes is the PK from the first relation, which becomes the FK in the second relation and the other is the multivalued attribute.
        – There can also be non key attributes in the second relation depending upon the data requirements.
    - Map weak entities
      - For each weak entity type, create a new relation and include all of the simple attributes as attributes of this relation. The PK of the identifying relation is also included as the FK in this new relation.
    - Map binary relationships
      - 1:M
        - For each 1:M binary relationship, first create a relation for each of the two entity types participating in the relationship. Then include the PK attribute (or attributes) of the entity on the one-side of the relationship as the FK on the many-side of the relationship.
      - M:N
        - First create a relation for each of the two entity types participating in the relationship.
        – Then create a new relation and include as foreign key attributes, the PK attribute (or attributes) for each of the two participating entity types. These attributes become the PK of the new relation.
        – If there are any nonkey attributes associated with the M:N relationship, they are also included in the new relation.
      - 1:1
        - Create two relations, one for each of the participating entity types.
        – The primary key (PK) on the mandatory side of the relationship becomes the foreign key (FK) on the optional side of the relationship.
        – where both are optional place the FK on the side which causes the fewest nulls
        – Special case: 1:1 total relationship (mandatory participation from both sides)
          - Consider consolidating the two entity types into one relation
    - Map associative entities
    - Map unary relationships
      - Unary Relationship is a relationship between the instances of a single entity type.
      - Unary 1:M Relationship – A relation is created for the entity type. Add a FK within the same relation that references the PK of the relation. A recursive foreign key is a FK in a relation that references the PK values of the same relation.
      - Unary M:N Relationship – Two relations are created, one for the entity type in the relationship and the other as the associative relation to represent the M:N relationship itself. The PK of the associative relation consists of two attributes (with different names) taking their values from the PK of the other relation.
    - Map ternary relationships
      - Ternary represents more information than three binary relationships
      - For example - Supplier 1 supplies Project 2 with Part 3 -
        – ternary
          - instance (supplier 1, project 2, part 3) exists
        – binaries
          - instances
            – (supplier1, project 2) (project 2, part 3) (supplier 1, part 3)
          - BUT does not imply (supplier 1, project 2, part 3)
      - Ternary relationship should be converted to an associative entity.
        – To map an associative entity type that links three regular entity types, an associative relation is created.
        – The default PK of this relation consists of the three PK attributes for the participating entity types.
        – Any attributes of the associative entity type become attributes of the new relation.
    - Map supertype/subtype relationships
