### Structured Query Language (SQL)
- SQL Predicates or Search Conditions
  - The search conditions are applied on each row, and the row is returned if the search conditions are evaluated to be TRUE for that row.
  - Comparison
    - Compare the value of one expression to the value of another expression.
    - Operators: =, !=,< >, <, >, <=, >=
    - Example: salary > 5000
  - Range
    - Test whether the value of an expression falls within a specified range of values.
    - Operator: BETWEEN
    - Example: salary BETWEEN 1000 AND 3000 (both are inclusive)
  - Set Membership
    - To test whether the value of expression equals one of a set of values.
    - Operator: IN
    - Example : city IN ('Melbourne', 'Sydney')
  - Pattern Match
    - To test whether a string (text) matches a specified pattern.
    - Operator: LIKE
    - Patterns:
      - % character represents any sequence of zero or more character.
      - _ character represents any single character.
    - Example:
      - WHERE city LIKE 'M%'
      - WHERE unit_code LIKE 'FIT20__'
  - NULL
    - To test whether a column has a NULL (unknown) value.
    - Example: WHERE grade IS NULL.
  - Use in subquery (to be discussed in the future)
    - ANY, ALL
    - EXISTS
- What row will be retrieved
  - Predicate evaluation is done using three-valued logic.
    - TRUE, FALSE and UNKNOWN
  - DBMS will evaluate the predicate against each row.
  - Row that is evaluated to be TRUE will be retrieved.
  - NULL is considered to be UNKNOWN.
- Combining Predicates
  - Logical operators
    - AND, OR, NOT
  - Rules
    - An expression is evaluated LEFT to RIGHT
    - Sub-expression in brackets are evaluated first
    - NOTs are evaluated before AND and OR
    - ANDs are evaluated before OR
    - Use of BRACKETS better alternative
- Truth Table
  - AND is evaluated to be TRUE if and only if both conditions are TRUE
  - OR is evaluated to be TRUE if and only if at least one of the conditions is TRUE
- Arithmetic Operations
  - Can be performed in SQL
- Oracle NVL function
  - It is used to replace a NULL with a value
    - SELECT stu_nbr, NVL(enrol_mark, 0), NVL(enrol_grade, 'WH') FROM enrolment
- Renaming Column
  - Use the word "AS"
- Sorting Query Result
  - "ORDER BY" clause - tuples have no order
    - Must be used if more than one row may be returned
  - Order can be ASCending or DESCending. The default is ASCending
    - NULL values can be explicitly placed first/last using "NULLS LAST" or "NULLS FIRST" command
  - Sorting can be done for multiple columns
    - order of the sorting is specified for each column
- Removing Duplicate Rows in the Query Result
  - Use "DISTINCT" as part of SELECT clause
- SQL JOIN
  - For database students are required to use ANSI JOINS
    - placing the join in the where clause is not acceptable and will be marked as incorrect for all assessment purposes
      - such a join is sometimes known as "implicit join notation" - effectively a cross product and then restricted by the where clause
  - ANSI JOINS
    - ON
      - the general form which always works, hence the syntax we tend to use
      - FROM student JOIN qualification ON student.sno = qualification.sno
    - USING
      - requires matching attribute names for the PK and FK
      - FROM student JOIN qualification USING (sno)
    - NATURAL
      - requires matching attribute names for the PK and FK
      - FROM student NATURAL JOIN qualification
- JOIN-ing Multiple Tables
  - Pair the PK and FK in the JOIN condition
  - Note table aliasing e.g. unit u in FROM clause
- TO_CHAR and TO_DATE
  - to_char: date data type using selecting for display
  - to_date: text representing date must be formatted with to_date when comparing or inserting/updating
- Current Date
  - Current date can be queried from the DUAL table using the SYSDATE attribute.
    - SELECT sysdate FROM dual;
  - Oracle internal attributes include:
    - sysdate: current date/time
    - systimestamp: current date/time as a timestamp
    - user: current logged in user
